period: an NBA game is divided in 4 periods of 12 mins each. For example, a value for period = 1 refers to the first period (the first 12 mins of the game).
• minutes_remaining and seconds_remaining have to do with the amount of time in minutes and seconds, respectively, that remained to be played in a given period.
• shot_made_flag indicates whether a shot was made (y) or missed (n).
• action_type has to do with the basketball moves used by players, either to pass by defenders to gain access to the basket, or to get a clean pass to a teammate to score a two pointer or three pointer.
• shot_type indicates whether a shot is a 2-point field goal, or a 3-point field goal.
• shot_distance: distance to the basket (measured in feet).
• x and y refer to the court coordinates (measured in inches) where a shot occurred .

Basketball court dimensions in practice vary in overall length and width. In many areas of the country, older high school gymnasiums in particular have smaller overall size than regulation. Many of these same gyms have varying backboard designs and measurements.

Even though Pro, College, High School and Junior High School courts differ in overall size and layout, the interior markings for the “Foul Line” and “The Backboard and Rim” are the same.

High School, College and NBA courts each have a unique 3 point line (arc).

Overall Court Regulation Sizes are typically:

NBA Professional and College – 94 feet long and 50 feet wide
High School – 84 feet long and 50 feet wide
Junior High – 74 feet long and 42 feet wide
The Foul Line:
For all courts the “foul line” distance is 15 feet from the foul line to the front of the backboard. This measurement is commonly confused as from the center of the basket and front of the rim.

The Key (the Lane):
The Key (also called the Lane) is different for Professional (NBA) and College/High School.

Professional (NBA): The key is 16 feet wide
College (NCAA) and High School: The key is 12 feet wide
Regulation courts have the backboard extending out 4 feet over the baseline into the key. A 6 foot arc (half circle) extends from the foul line away from the basket to complete the key.

The 3 Point Line (Arc):
Three Point lines differ as follows:

NBA Basketball Courts – the 3 point arc is 22 feet to the center of the rim on the sides with a straight line extending out 16 feet 9 inches from the baseline. Past those points the line extends out 23 feet 9 inches from the center of the rim.
Mens and Womens College Basketball Courts – the 3 point arc is 20 feet 9 inches.
High School Basketball Courts – the 3 point arc is 19 feet 9 inches.
The Backboard and Rim:
The regulation distance from the ground to the top of the rim is 10 feet for all levels of play. Regulation backboards are 6 feet wide (72 inches) by 42 inches tall. All basketball rims (hoops) are 18 inches in diameter. The inner square on the backboard is 24 inches wide by 18 inches tall.
All line markings on the floor are 2 inches wide and can vary in color.

